# Generating synthetic tabular data with Generative adversarial network
Bachelor’s thesis

### Aim of the study
The purpose of this study was to create synthetic tabular data over a GAN that statistically resembles the original data, but does not contain any single point of measurement of the original data that could be identified by an individual. In addition, it was important to test and analyze the approaches and boundaries of the GAN network for the synthesis of tabular data.

### Results
The results obtained in generating numerical data are very promising. The Norma distribution, mean, standard deviation, and variance are surprisingly similar in very short network training. The correlations between the variables were very similar to the original data.

Instead, generating categorical (one-hot encoded) variables creates new challenges. A heterogeneous and homogeneous data frame was used to generate categorical data. The original and the generated data frame were compared by calculating the numbers of categorical variables. In a homogeneous data frame, there were only two categorical variables, each with 5,000. The generator generates such a data frame with an average error of about 0.1-1%, that is, either of the two generated variables had more errors, the results were positive. Big problems came in generating heterogeneous data, which also had a data frame row number of 10,000, which included four different categorical variables. The categories are very unbalanced, with one category containing 5,590 variables, the second category containing 4,112 variables, the third category containing 256 variables, and the last category containing 42 variables. The generator could not generate a small order of 42 pieces (about 0.5% of categorical variables) at any point. The two major classes are well generated by the generator. For the third class, the generator generates moderately, sometimes well.

Generating categorical and numerical variables simultaneously with the GAN network yielded very positive results. The normal distribution, mean, standard deviation, and variance were very similar. There was also a very similar number of categorical variables as in the original data frame, except that the generator is now unable to generate the problematic very small number of categorical variables (previously, except for a few times). The correlations between the variables were very similar compared to the original data frame. This implies that the neural network trained with the generated data performs as well in its classification as the original data frame. Next, the neural network tested how well the data can be categorized with original and generated data. Neural networks were trained to categorize them based on the data entered, whether they were female or male. As a result, very positive results were obtained, as the neural network trained with the generated data was able to classify the data better than the original data. On average, the data generated worked better in categorization than the neural network trained on the original data.

### Conclusion
* GAN should be researched more, and I think it has a lot of potential to generate synthetic data
* Based on the comparison methods used in this work, synthetic data could replace sensitive data?
* Due to the random nature of the generator input, it is very difficult to estimate how well the generator will perform in generating new data
